The worst type of crying wasn't the kind everyone could see--the wailing on street corners, the tearing at clothes. No, the worst kind happened when your soul wept and no matter what you did, there was no way to comfort it. A section withered and became a scar on the part of your soul that survived. For people like me and Echo, our souls contained more scar tissue than life.I've learned that people will forget what you said, people will forget what you did, but people will never forget how you made them feel.
A friend is someone who knows all about you and still loves you.
To live is the rarest thing in the world. Most people exist, that is all.
Always forgive your enemies; nothing annoys them so much.
Darkness cannot drive out darkness: only light can do that. Hate cannot drive out hate: only love can do that.
Live as if you were to die tomorrow. Learn as if you were to live forever.
We accept the love we think we deserve.
Without music, life would be a mistake.
I am so clever that sometimes I don't understand a single word of what I am saying.
To be yourself in a world that is constantly trying to make you something else is the greatest accomplishment.
Here's to the crazy ones. The misfits. The rebels. The troublemakers. The round pegs in the square holes. The ones who see things differently. They're not fond of rules. And they have no respect for the status quo. You can quote them, disagree with them, glorify or vilify them. About the only thing you can't do is ignore them. Because they change things. They push the human race forward. And while some may see them as the crazy ones, we see genius. Because the people who are crazy enough to think they can change the world, are the ones who do.
Insanity is doing the same thing, over and over again, but expecting different results.
I believe that everything happens for a reason. People change so that you can learn to let go, things go wrong so that you appreciate them when they're right, you believe lies so you eventually learn to trust no one but yourself, and sometimes good things fall apart so better things can fall together.
It is better to be hated for what you are than to be loved for what you are not.
Twenty years from now you will be more disappointed by the things that you didn't do than by the ones you did do. So throw off the bowlines. Sail away from the safe harbor. Catch the trade winds in your sails. Explore. Dream. Discover.
All that is gold does not glitter,Not all those who wander are lost;The old that is strong does not wither,Deep roots are not reached by the frost.From the ashes a fire shall be woken,A light from the shadows shall spring;Renewed shall be blade that was broken,The crownless again shall be king.
The person, be it gentleman or lady, who has not pleasure in a good novel, must be intolerably stupid.
It is our choices, Harry, that show what we truly are, far more than our abilities.
Imperfection is beauty, madness is genius and it's better to be absolutely ridiculous than absolutely boring.
There are only two ways to live your life. One is as though nothing is a miracle. The other is as though everything is a miracle.
It does not do to dwell on dreams and forget to live.
Good friends, good books, and a sleepy conscience: this is the ideal life.
As he read, I fell in love the way you fall asleep: slowly, and then all at once.
We are all in the gutter, but some of us are looking at the stars.
Fairy tales are more than true: not because they tell us that dragons exist, but because they tell us that dragons can be beaten.
The fool doth think he is wise, but the wise man knows himself to be a fool.
It is better to remain silent at the risk of being thought a fool, than to talk and remove all doubt of it.
Whenever you find yourself on the side of the majority, it is time to reform (or pause and reflect).
Life is what happens to us while we are making other plans.
Yesterday is history, tomorrow is a mystery, today is a gift of God, which is why we call it the present.
I have not failed. I've just found 10,000 ways that won't work.
It is not a lack of love, but a lack of friendship that makes unhappy marriages.
The opposite of love is not hate, it's indifference. The opposite of art is not ugliness, it's indifference. The opposite of faith is not heresy, it's indifference. And the opposite of life is not death, it's indifference.
A woman is like a tea bag; you never know how strong it is until it's in hot water.
The man who does not read has no advantage over the man who cannot read.
I love you without knowing how, or when, or from where. I love you simply, without problems or pride: I love you in this way because I do not know any other way of loving but this, in which there is no I or you, so intimate that your hand upon my chest is my hand, so intimate that when I fall asleep your eyes close.
I may not have gone where I intended to go, but I think I have ended up where I needed to be.
If you don't stand for something you will fall for anything.
Outside of a dog, a book is man's best friend. Inside of a dog it's too dark to read.
I solemnly swear that I am up to no good.
I am enough of an artist to draw freely upon my imagination. Imagination is more important than knowledge. Knowledge is limited. Imagination encircles the world.
Love all, trust a few,Do wrong to none: be able for thine enemyRather in power than use; and keep thy friendUnder thy own life's key: be check'd for silence,But never tax'd for speech.
I like nonsense, it wakes up the brain cells. Fantasy is a necessary ingredient in living.
Have you ever been in love? Horrible isn't it? It makes you so vulnerable. It opens your chest and it opens up your heart and it means that someone can get inside you and mess you up.
The feelings that hurt most, the emotions that sting most, are those that are absurd - The longing for impossible things, precisely because they are impossible; nostalgia for what never was; the desire for what could have been; regret over not being someone else; dissatisfaction with the world’s existence. All these half-tones of the soul’s consciousness create in us a painful landscape, an eternal sunset of what we are.A reader lives a thousand lives before he dies, said Jojen. The man who never reads lives only one.
Never put off till tomorrow what may be done day after tomorrow just as well.
Being deeply loved by someone gives you strength, while loving someone deeply gives you courage.
When I had nothing to lose, I had everything. When I stopped being who I am, I found myself.
I'm saying that I'm a moody, insecure, narrow-minded, jealous, borderline homicidal bitch, and I want you to promise me that you're okay with that, because it's who I am, and you're what I need.
I have learned now that while those who speak about one's miseries usually hurt, those who keep silence hurt more.