You can't rely on Facebook to do its best
Nobody should be a guinea pig for algorithms, the Federal Minister of Justice replies to Mark Zuckerberg - and explains how Facebook must be regulated.
In a guest article for ZEIT ONLINE, founder and CEO Mark Zuckerberg commented on his company Facebook. He is reacting to the ongoing criticism of the social network due to data abuse and personalized advertising.
The Federal Minister for Justice and Consumer Protection, Katarina Barley (SPD), answers him at this point.
Happy 15th birthday to Facebook!
At the age of 15, one's own actions can already have serious consequences, young people of this age have to take responsibility themselves.
I think it's good that Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg makes it clear with his guest article on ZEIT ONLINE that he is aware of Facebook's responsibility to society.
In crucial points, however, he reveals a lack of awareness of the real problems.
Regulation is a useful tool
Indeed, when it comes to social media platforms, especially Facebook, people often have mixed feelings:
The offer offers new communication channels and opportunities to present yourself and your messages.
But it's also scary how well the platform knows itself.
For example, the platform gives the impression that you already know who you want to be friends with before you even have the idea.
It becomes problematic for users if they are suddenly attacked or even threatened via the service, which is intended to facilitate contact with friends.
Facebook is also criticized for not fighting insults and hatred with enough determination.
It may not be in Facebook's interest to display such content. But if the company simply refers to an immature algorithm or human error to explain hostilities, then that is unconvincing and does not live up to the company's responsibility.
This is also of little help to those affected.
It is the responsibility of the respective platform to ensure that criminal content is deleted immediately and not redistributed.
To ensure this, we have taken action in Germany with the Network Enforcement Act.
The law also obliges Facebook to take more consistent action against criminal content.
Another important area is the handling of personal data.
It is plausible that it runs counter to company interests to sell user data to advertising partners. After all, you can make a lot more money with your own marketing of advertising.
But what if there is a data leak anyway?
Facebook not only bears a responsibility for not intentionally releasing the data.
It must also consistently protect them from access by third parties.
External regulation is a useful way of giving users of platforms like Facebook security again when dealing with them.
There must be binding rules and controls of these rules.
But what could a control look like that creates trust but leaves the freedom of users intact?
First: We need verifiability.
Even the best regulation is useless if it cannot be verified.
It doesn't matter whether it's about how an algorithm filters posts for targeted false information or the question of what exactly the private data is used for: We can't rely on Facebook to do its best, we have to be able to check it.
When a company assures that it is only acting with the best of intentions, that is sometimes not enough, as the scandal surrounding the analysis company Cambridge Analytica, which illegally tapped data from 87 million Facebook users, shows.
This does not mean that Facebook should publish its algorithm, but there must be access so that external organizations - authorities or even consumer protection organizations - can test and check how it works.
Secondly, we must not accept any discrimination. Neither by algorithms that classify the perspective of a certain political group as particularly relevant, nor by users who use digital platforms to agitate against other people.
Companies must prevent any form of discrimination.
Politicians must develop clear international standards for this.
Third: We need clear, verifiable specifications for IT security.
Companies will also benefit from this in the long term, as people will then trust them more.
So that companies are not tempted to save on IT security for short-sighted economic reasons, it is better if security standards are legally defined at European level.
Fourth: In addition to social responsibility, digital responsibility must become a matter of course for companies.
When Mark Zuckerberg refers to an algorithm that is not yet fully developed, this shows a dilemma:
If we were to accept such reasoning, then there would be no basis whatsoever for regulation, control and enforcement of the law.
Zuckerberg's justification that Facebook's AI systems aren't perfect shouldn't be an excuse.
The company must face up to its responsibility here.
Of course, not every decision made by an algorithm can be verified by humans.
Facebook employs thousands of people worldwide who are supposed to control the content on the platform.
However, the conditions under which they work and, above all, the sheer volume of data make it simply impossible to check every piece of content.
If an algorithm doesn't work, the person who used the software must be held responsible.
Real people shouldn't be guinea pigs for testing algorithms.
We must not stop at the borders of the EU
So far, politics has not achieved enough internationally to make legal requirements for internet platforms such as Facebook and to enforce them.
A regulation for Internet companies can hardly work nationally.
The globally operating companies can simply relocate their headquarters to a country with lower data protection standards and lax regulation.
Those who want the lavish corporate taxes of a platform might be willing to turn a blind eye to privacy.
That's why we have to act internationally without waiting for an agreement with the last country.
Europe must be a role model.
With the introduction of the General Data Protection Regulation, we have already taken a huge step that is exemplary.
But we must not stop at the borders of the EU.
If enough countries with great market power lead the way, data protection can become a locational advantage.
It is not Facebook's responsibility to provide regulation.
But I'm curious to see whether Mark Zuckerberg is really willing to submit to global regulation that focuses on the safety and needs of users.
In the end, the business model of Facebook and other social networks is based on trust.
And there isn't much left of that today.